# to create specific version of kubernetes 

eksctl create cluster --name my-demo2eks-cluster --nodegroup-name my-worker-node --node-type t2.medium --nodes 2 --managed --region us-east-1  --version 1.25

1.kubectl version

#Get the Kubernetes version of your nodes

2.kubectl get nodes

#This procedure requires eksctl version 0.172.0 or later. You can check your version with the

3.eksctl version
#To upgrade to version

4. eksctl upgrade cluster --name my-cluster --version 1.26 --approve

#Then update kubectl client 
#Download the kubectl binary for your cluster's Kubernetes version from Amazon S3.


curl -O https://s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/amazon-eks/1.26.0/2024-01-04/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl

chmod +x ./kubectl

mkdir -p $HOME/bin && cp ./kubectl $HOME/bin/kubectl && export PATH=$HOME/bin:$PATH

echo 'export PATH=$HOME/bin:$PATH' >> ~/.bashrc

kubectl version --client



note:
If you're updating to version 1.23 and use Amazon EBS volumes in your cluster, then you must install the Amazon EBS CSI driver in your cluster before updating your cluster to version 1.23 to avoid workload disruptions.
For more information, see Kubernetes 1.23 and Amazon EBS CSI driver.

Kubernetes 1.24 and later use containerd as the default container runtime. 
If you're switching to the containerd runtime and already have Fluentd configured for Container Insights, then you must migrate Fluentd to Fluent Bit before updating your cluster. 
The Fluentd parsers are configured to only parse log messages in JSON format. Unlike dockerd, the containerd container runtime has log messages that aren't in JSON format. 
If you don't migrate to Fluent Bit, some of the configured Fluentd's parsers will generate a massive amount of errors inside the Fluentd container.
For more information on migrating, see Set up Fluent Bit as a DaemonSet to send logs to CloudWatch Logs.

Because Amazon EKS runs a highly available control plane, you can update only one minor version at a time. 
For more information about this requirement, see Kubernetes Version and Version Skew Support Policy. 
Assume that your current cluster version is version 1.27 and you want to update it to version 1.29. 
You must first update your version 1.27 cluster to version 1.28 and then update your version 1.28 cluster to version 1.29.

Review the version skew between the Kubernetes kube-apiserver and the kubelet on your nodes.

Note1:
Starting from Kubernetes version 1.28, kubelet may be up to three minor versions older than kube-apiserver. See Kubernetes upstream version skew policy.

If the kubelet on your managed and Fargate nodes is on Kubernetes version 1.25 or newer, you can update your cluster up to three versions ahead without updating the kubelet version.
For example, if the kubelet is on version 1.25, you can update your Amazon EKS cluster version from 1.25 to 1.26, to 1.27, and to 1.28 while the kubelet remains on version 1.25.

If the kubelet on your managed and Fargate nodes is on Kubernetes version 1.24 or older, it may only be up to two minor versions older than the kube-apiserver. 
In other words, if the kubelet is version 1.24 or older, you can only update your cluster up to two versions ahead. 
For example, if the kubelet is on version 1.21, you can update your Amazon EKS cluster version from 1.21 to 1.22, and to 1.23, but you will not be able to update the cluster to 1.24 while the kubelet remains on 1.21.

As a best practice before starting an update, make sure that the kubelet on your nodes is at the same Kubernetes version as your control plane.

If your cluster is configured with a version of the Amazon VPC CNI plugin for Kubernetes that is earlier than 1.8.0, then we recommend that you update the plugin to the latest version before updating your cluster. 
To update the plugin, see Working with the Amazon VPC CNI plugin for Kubernetes Amazon EKS add-on.

If you're updating your cluster to version 1.25 or later and have the AWS Load Balancer Controller deployed in your cluster, then update the controller to version 2.4.7 or later before updating your cluster version to 1.25.
For more information, see the Kubernetes 1.25 release notes.
